Hello.
Welcome back to the course on Python programming.
Today is going to be a quick tutorial and we're just going to quickly recap on indentation because it
is a very important part of python and I would like to demonstrate once again that indentation is important
and how code can go wrong if the invitation is not correct or it has been mistakenly set to be incorrect
.
So let's have a look.
So we here we've got the tutorial on the if statement and at the end we've got this quite long example
of chained statements.
And let's say we want to print out in addition to the X and the answer we want to print out the word
Hello.
So let's say here before x we wanted to print out Hello.
So if we run this code now every time we run it we can see that hello is there hello.
And then random number and then we've got the answer so the check that we were performing.
So what happens if we get the indentation incorrect.
What happens if by accident we put an indentation here from the point of view of other programming languages
this would make any difference whatsoever.
On the other hand from the point of view of Python that now means that this print statement is part
of this else bollocks so bar of the body for the else block.
And that means the print hello will only be executed whenever.
This is the option that is being triggered.
So if x is greater than one then only this gets executed if X or L.E. if x is greater than a minor greater
than or equal to minus 1 so if it's between minus 1 and 1 then this exit kit and this block only gets
exited in all other situations so when X is less than a minus 1.
So let's give the signal this see what happens.
Right.
So if I run this line you'll see that.
Hello.
Yes indeed it's there.
But if I run again there is no more Halo because value of x is not less than minus 1.
So you can see that indentation makes a big difference.
Again Helo's there because it's less than most fun and then it goes away.
So that is how errors can creep up into code especially if you are coming from a different programming
language where you're not used to using indentation as part of the programming language syntax.
So definitely watch out for that and try to always observe where you're placing an indentation and that
will help you avoid errors.
All right.
So hopefully you will be able to look out for these things in your coding in Python and I look forward
to seeing your next step.
Until then happy coding